---
page_title: "tanka_release Resource - tanka"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Tanka release
---

# tanka_release (Resource)

Tanka release

A release is an instance of a Tanka Package running in a Kubernetes cluster.

The `tanka_release` resource describes the desired status of the Tanka Package.

Configuration is passed in either `config` or `config_override`.

Both `config` and `config_override` are json objects given either directly in the resource definition by parsing through `jsonencode()` or by loading a file from either a local (by prefixing with `file://`) or remote (by prefixing with `http://` or `https://`) source. The remote sources must be publicly accessible, at this time there is no mechanism for providing authentication credentials to the remote server.

This structure is born out of a need to be able to set default configuration at both the jsonnet and terraform level along with the option to let environments override config in the *CI/CD* pipeline.

Using the `std.mergePatch()` function from the jsonnet standard library ensures that nested json objects are deep merged and not overwritten if identical keys are found, without the need for 3rd party json merge functions in the terraform context.

Both config vars, together with `api_server` and `namespace` are passed to tanka as tla-code vars. Note that the former is being camelCase'd to `apiServer` in the jsonnet context and that the `config` and `config_override` variables are being prefixed with `tf_` to avoid potential name collisions.

This provider assumes that the tanka package is configured with [inline environments](https://tanka.dev/inline-environments) in order to dynamically set the `api_server` and `namespace`. It is also assumed that only one tanka environment is used per configured `tanka_release` resource (defaults to `default`, but can be changed with the `source_path` variable).

A minimal setup for `main.jsonnet` using this provider could look like this:

```jsonnet
function(apiServer, namespace, tf_config={}, tf_config_override={}) {

  local default_config = {},
  local tf_config_values = std.mergePatch(tf_config, tf_config_override),
  local config = std.mergePatch(default_config, tf_config_values),

  apiVersion: 'tanka.dev/v1alpha1',
  kind: 'Environment',
  metadata: {
    name: 'default',
  },
  spec: {
    namespace: namespace,
    apiServer: apiServer,
    injectLabels: true,
  },

  data: {
    // your kubernetes resource definitions here
  },
}
```

Please also refer to the example in the [source code repository](https://github.com/Danalock/terraform-provider-tanka).

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "tanka_release" "minimal" {}

resource "tanka_release" "config_override_inline " {
  config = jsonencode({
    key_1 : "value_1"
    key_2 : "value_2"
  })
  config_override = jsonencode({
    key_1 : "overridden_value_1",
  })
}

resource "tanka_release" "config_override_external_file " {
  config = jsonencode({
    key_1 : "value_1"
    key_2 : "value_2"
  })
  config_override = "file://tanka_config_override.json"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `config` (String) Configuration object in arbitrary JSON format. The data can be provided inline with jsonencode() or given as a file. Local file paths are prefixed with `file://` and remote sources with the correct protocol `http://` or `https://`. Remote sources must be publicly available. Defaults to the empty object.
- `config_override` (String) Configuration override object in arbitrary JSON format. The data can be provided inline with jsonencode() or given as a file. Local file paths are prefixed with `file://` and remote sources with the correct protocol `http://` or `https://`. Remote sources must be publicly available. Defaults to the empty object.
- `namespace` (String) The Kubernetes namespace to install the release into. Defaults to `default`.
- `source_path` (String) The location of the Tanka main file. Defaults to `tanka/environments/default`.
- `version` (String) A version number for the Tanka package. Examples could be a git commit SHA, or a random value to force update on every run. This value is not passed to the tanka application, if version information needs to be available to tanka it should be set as a subkey in one of the config objects.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of the resource. Consists of the cluster endpoint suffixed with a six letter random string (underscore separated).
- `last_updated` (String) Timestamp updated on every apply operation.
